%\documentclass[]{article}
\documentclass[11pt]{article}
\usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames]{xcolor}

\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
%\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{tgtermes}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
%\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage[letterpaper,bottom=1in,top=1in,right=1.25in,left=1.25in,includemp=FALSE]{geometry}
\usepackage{pdfpages}
\usepackage[small]{caption}

\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{\usepackage{microtype}}{}
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
\usepackage{fontspec}
\ifxetex
\usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
\fi
\defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
\newcommand{\euro}{€}
\fi
%

\usepackage{fancyvrb}

\usepackage{ctable,longtable}

\usepackage[section]{placeins}
\usepackage{float} % provides the H option for float placement
\restylefloat{figure}
\usepackage{dcolumn} % allows for different column alignments
\newcolumntype{.}{D{.}{.}{1.2}}

\usepackage{booktabs} % nicer horizontal rules in tables

%Assume we want graphics always
\usepackage{graphicx}
% We will generate all images so they have a width \maxwidth. This means
% that they will get their normal width if they fit onto the page, but
% are scaled down if they would overflow the margins.
%% \makeatletter
%% \def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth
%%   \else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
%% \makeatother
%% \let\Oldincludegraphics\includegraphics
%% \renewcommand{\includegraphics}[1]{\Oldincludegraphics[width=\maxwidth]{#1}}
\graphicspath{{.}{../Soccom_Code/socom_2013/}}


%% \ifxetex
%% \usepackage[pagebackref=true, setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
%% unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
%% xetex]{hyperref}
%% \else
\usepackage[pagebackref=true, unicode=true, bookmarks=true, pdftex]{hyperref}
% \fi


\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
  bookmarks=true,
  pdfauthor={Christopher Grady and Rebecca Wolfe},
  pdftitle={Promoting Peace Amidst Group Conflict: An Intergroup Contact Field Experiment in Nigeria},
  colorlinks=true,
  linkcolor=BrickRed,
  citecolor=blue, %MidnightBlue,
  urlcolor=BrickRed,
  % urlcolor=blue,
  % linkcolor=magenta,
  pdfborder={0 0 0}}

%\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
%\setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
\usepackage{parskip}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}

%% Insist on this.
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{2}

\VerbatimFootnotes % allows verbatim text in footnotes

\title{Promoting Peace Amidst Group Conflict: An Intergroup Contact Field
Experiment in Nigeria}

\author{
Christopher Grady and Rebecca Wolfe
}


\date{May 07, 2019}


\usepackage{versions}
\makeatletter
\renewcommand*\versionmessage[2]{\typeout{*** `#1' #2. ***}}
\renewcommand*\beginmarkversion{\sffamily}
  \renewcommand*\endmarkversion{}
\makeatother

\excludeversion{comment}

%\usepackage[margins=1in]{geometry}

\usepackage[compact,bottomtitles]{titlesec}
%\titleformat{ ⟨command⟩}[⟨shape⟩]{⟨format⟩}{⟨label⟩}{⟨sep⟩}{⟨before⟩}[⟨after⟩]
\titleformat{\section}[hang]{\Large\bfseries}{\thesection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\subsection}[hang]{\large\bfseries}{\thesubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{1ex}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\bfseries\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}}
%\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}}

%%\titleformat{\subsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%%%\titleformat*{\subsection}{\bfseries\scshape}
%%%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[leftmargin]{\footnotesize\filleft}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{}{}
%%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\small\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%%\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.5\baselineskip}}

%\titlespacing*{ ⟨command⟩}{⟨left⟩}{⟨beforesep⟩}{⟨aftersep⟩}[⟨right⟩]
\titlespacing{\section}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}
\titlespacing{\subsection}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}
\titlespacing{\subsubsection}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}



%% These next lines tell latex that it is ok to have a single graphic
%% taking up most of a page, and they also decrease the space around
%% figures and tables.
\renewcommand\floatpagefraction{.9}
\renewcommand\topfraction{.9}
\renewcommand\bottomfraction{.9}
\renewcommand\textfraction{.1}
\setcounter{totalnumber}{50}
\setcounter{topnumber}{50}
\setcounter{bottomnumber}{50}
\setlength{\intextsep}{2ex}
\setlength{\floatsep}{2ex}
\setlength{\textfloatsep}{2ex}



\begin{document}
\VerbatimFootnotes

%\begin{titlepage}
%  \maketitle
%\vspace{2in}
%
%\begin{center}
%  \begin{large}
%    PROPOSAL WHITE PAPER
%
%BAA 14-013
%
%Can a Hausa Language Television Station Change Norms about Violence in Northern Nigeria? A Randomized Study of Media Effects on Violent Extremism
%
%Jake Bowers
%
%University of Illinois @ Urbana-Champaign (jwbowers@illinois.edu)
%
%\url{http://jakebowers.org}
%
%Phone: +12179792179
%
%Topic Number: 1
%
%Topic Title: Identity, Influence and Mobilization
%
%\end{large}
%\end{center}
%\end{titlepage}

\maketitle

\begin{abstract}

Intergroup conflict is responsible for many of the worst displays of human nature.  In this paper we test the ability of psychological reconciliation through intergroup contact to contribute to peace between groups involved in violent conflict.  Intergroup conflict is often mitigated by international intervention, like foreign military intervention (or peacekeepers) and dispute mediation.  However, international intervention is not always effective at reducing intergroup conflicts.  We propose psychological reconciliation through intergroup contact as an alternative to large-scale international intervention.  Groups in conflict develop negative attitudes about the other group that make peace impossible.  Outside intervention often serve as substitutes for positive intergroup attitudes, but psychological reconciliation could improve intergroup attitudes directly.  Improved intergroup attitudes should allow the conflicting groups to settle disputes even in the absence of outside intervention.  We test the ability of psychological reconciliation programs to promote peace between violently conflicting groups with a field experiment in Nigeria, where farmer and pastoralist communities are embroiled in a deadly conflict over land use.  We find that the programs increase intergroup trust and the physical security of group members.  These results suggest that psychological reconciliation can promote peace between groups in conflict.

\end{abstract}

\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}

Intergroup conflict is responsible for many of the worst displays of
human nature. In Nigeria, intergroup conflict between farmers and
pastoralists has claimed countless lives and destroyed countless
communities over the past two decades. As the conflict escalated, groups
of anti-pastoralist vigilantes mobilized to pre-emptively prevent
pastoralists from encroaching on land claimed by farmers (Duru 2018;
McDonnel 2017). These groups, dubbed the ``livestock guard'', ransacked
pastoralist settlements and violently drove pastoralists from their
homes, often with the assistance of the local farming community.
Likewise, pastoralist groups enacted vigilante justice, raiding and
burning down farming villages seen to encroach on land claimed by
pastoralists. Attacks such as these forced up to 180,000 people from
their homes in 2018 (Daniel 2018) and farmer-pastoralist conflict costs
Nigeria \$13 billion of lost economic productivity annually (McDougal et
al. 2015).

Though farmer-pastoralist conflict was widespread, mass violence did not
break out in all communities with farmer-pastoralist conflict. In one
village, farmers and pastoralists defended each other from hostile
neighbors. When a group of livestock guard came for one pastoralist
settlement, the neighboring farming village arrested them to protect the
pastoralists. After the arrest, farmers and pastoralists convened to
decide what should be done with the prisoners. They agreed that the
group of livestock guard should not be punished, but should be disarmed
and released home -- a proposition proposed by \emph{the pastoralists}.
These farmers and pastoralists had also struggled with conflict, and
people on both sides had died in disputes over farmland and grazing
land. But their disputes had not escalated to the point that each side
wanted the other removed by any means necessary. They had created
structures that allowed them to settle disputes, and the same structures
allowed them to reach a solution about the livestock guard.

Why were some farmer and pastoralist groups able to keep peace whereas
others were swallowed by the escalating conflict? Why were some
communities able to overcome their intergroup disputes whereas others
were destroyed by them? Understanding the factors that help groups
resolve their disputes is important for mitigating and preventing the
myriad intergroup conflicts around the world. Intergroup conflict fuels
and is fueled by intergroup prejudice. We argue that psychological
reconciliation during an ongoing conflict can reduce intergroup
prejudice and mitigate violence. Bottom-up peacebuilding programs can
help conflicting groups achieve psychological reconciliation through
intergroup contact and superordinate goals (Sherif 1958).

Most literature and policy about peacebuilding and preventing intergroup
conflict revolves around international intervention (Autesserre 2017;
Regan 2002; Shannon 2009; Smith and Stam 2003; Walter 2002). The
international community, through military intervention and mediation,
can increase the cost of fighting, enforce or raise the costs of
defecting from peace agreements, and facilitate information flows (Di
Salvatore and Ruggeri 2017; Doyle and Sambanis 2000). By providing
information and punishing defection from agreements, international
intervention helps conflicting actors overcome the bargaining failures
that lead to violent conflict (Fearon 1994b, 1995; Powell 2006; Smith
and Stam 2003). This type of peacebuilding has been employed by the
international institutions like the UN in conflicts around the world,
including Namibia, Sierra Leone, Guatemala, Cambodia, and India and
Pakistan. Ideally, peacekeepers impose order to protect bystanders and
prevent further violence while mediation assists the two groups in
settling disputes peacefully. While not universally successful, research
shows that peacekeeping and mediation are effective strategies to
promote peace in many conflicts (Doyle and Sambanis 2000; Gartner 2011;
Hartzell, Hoddie, and Rothchild 2001; Wallensteen and Svensson 2014;
Walter 2002).

While international intervention has assisted in ending many conflicts,
it is most effective at maintaining peace in a post-conflict setting and
is relatively ineffective at ending ongoing conflicts (Bratt 1996; Doyle
and Sambanis 2006; Gilligan, Sergenti, and others 2008). Notably,
international intervention failed to stop intergroup conflicts in DRC
(Autesserre 2010), Somalia (Autesserre 2019), Bosnia (Fetherston,
Ramsbotham, and Woodhouse 1994), Angola (Bratt 1996) and Rwanda (Barnett
1997; Dallaire 2009). And even when international intervention is
successful, that success is often short-lived. Weinstein (2005)
estimated that 75\% of civil wars resume within 10 years of UN
intervention, and Beardsley (2008) showed that mediation reduces
conflict in the short-term but not the long-term. One reason for these
failures is that international intervention is often more influenced by
international norms about what strategies \emph{should} work than
finding the strategies that are most likely to work in a given context
(Autesserre 2016; Paris 2003). But international intervention has also
been criticized for not solving the underlying problems that cause
conflict -- providing a band-aid when the conflict needs a doctor
(Autesserre 2019).

International intervention through military intervention and mediation
might be conducive to preventing different types of violence than
bottom-up peacebuilding programs. Whereas intervention is most
successful in the immediate aftermath of conflict and mainly reduces
violence in the short-term, bottom-up programs might be most effective
at mitigating ongoing conflict before it escalates and at ameliorating
the persistent ``no peace -- no war'' contexts that plague many
countries. Even for contexts in which international intervention would
be successful, bottom-up interventions might be more feasible or timely.
Before international intervention can occur, the international community
must agree on an appropriate intervention and make large commitments of
forces and financing. As a result, international intervention often
comes late, costs billions of dollars, and is unlikely to be applied
unless preventing the conflict is an international priority. Therefore
international intervention is unlikely to target the persistent
intergroup conflicts that plagues many states and is unlikely to be used
until conflict escalates into large-scale violence.

While most attempts to reduce violent conflict between groups are
top-down, peacebuilding is going through a ``local turn'' as scholars
and practitioners call for bottom-up strategies to building peace
(Autesserre 2016, 2017; Ditlmann, Samii, and Zeitzoff 2017; Safunu
2012). Bottom-up strategies focus on engaging local actors and assisting
them in reducing group conflict. Conflicts at local levels are often
driven and perpetuated by intergroup animosity long after the original
grievance is forgotten {[}McDonnel (2017); cite more about intergroup
animosity{]}. Intergroup animosity and strongly negative attitudes can
be an insurmountable barrier to peace. Individuals often motivatedly
reason to rationalize their beliefs, which leads to biased processing of
information about outgroup members' behavior. Behavior by outgroup
members may be perceived as more threatening and more malicious than the
same behavior committed by a neutral party (cite fundamental attribution
error, motivated reasoning; Hewstone 1990). The perceived negative
behavior may be seen as \emph{defining} of the group, whereas any
perceived positive behavior may be seen as the \emph{exception} to the
group (Allison and Messick 1985; Pettigrew 1979). This biased
information processing reinforces negative group stereotypes and can
subvert the groups' own attempts to foster peace. It can also sabotage
intergroup bargaining by causing the groups to have inaccurate beliefs
about each other, adding to information and commitment problems that
cause conflict. Bottom-up strategies that help reduce group prejudice
could help the groups achieve peace without the large-scale
international intervention efforts most commonly used to build peace.

One of the most promising approaches to reducing intergroup prejudice
and violence comes from intergroup contact theory. Intergroup contact
theory hypothesizes that interactions in which group members cooperate
to achieve shared goals will reduce prejudice and the likelihood of
violence. Intergroup contact works by demystifying the outgroup,
presenting the other group's perspective, and replacing imagined
stereotypes with firsthand knowledge (Allport 1954; Pettigrew and Tropp
2008). Intergroup contact is likely especially good at reducing
intergroup conflict when groups cooperate to achieve superordinate goals
-- goals that require the cooperation of both groups and benefit both
groups (Gaertner et al. 2000; Sherif 1958) The prejudice-reducing
effects of intergroup contact have been demonstrated in a variety of
countries and using a variety of methodological approaches (Paluck,
Green, and Green 2017; Pettigrew and Tropp 2006). Notably, intergroup
contacted programs reduced prejudice between white people and black
people in the U.S. and South Africa (Burns, Corno, and La Ferrara 2015;
Marmaros and Sacerdote 2006), Jews and Arabs (Ditlmann and Samii 2016;
Yablon 2012), Muslims and Christians (Scacco and Warren 2016), and
Hindus and Muslims (Barnhardt 2009). Peacebuilding programs utilizing
intergroup contact and superordinate goals are increasingly used to
reduce intergroup conflict by peacebuilding organizations (Ditlmann,
Samii, and Zeitzoff 2017).

Although research shows support for intergroup contact theory generally,
its efficacy to reduce prejudice amid \emph{real-world} conflict is an
open question. First, most research about intergroup contact uses
correlational studies or lab experiments, both of which have
methodological weaknesses. Correlational studies cannot demonstrate
causal effects, and results from lab experiments may not apply to real
world conflicts, where groups compete for resources and share a history
of intergroup violence (Ditlmann, Samii, and Zeitzoff 2017). Second, no
prior studies of intergroup contact have involved groups engaged in
active intergroup violence\footnote{Previous studies have involved
  groups with a history of violence conflict -- see Scacco and Warren
  (2016) and Ditlmann and Samii (2016).}, and some studies suggest that
intergroup contact in violent settings could be ineffective or even
backfire. Negative experiences with outgroups increase prejudice, and
the most prejudiced individuals are most likely to interpret intergroup
contact negatively (Gubler 2013; Paolini, Harwood, and Rubin 2010).
Despite a lack of evidence about the effects of bottom-up peacebuilding
programs in violent contexts, and the risks of programs going badly,
peacebuilding organizations implement numerous bottom-up interventions
in violent contexts each year. Bottom-up peacebuilding programs might
defuse intergroup conflict, but these programs also might do more harm
than good.

To study the effect of bottom-up psychological interventions on violent
conflict, we conduct a field experiment with farmer and pastoralist
communities in Nigeria to determine if an intergroup contact-based
program effectively reduces prejudice and violent conflict. We randomly
assigned communities with farmer-pastoralist violence to receive the
peacebuilding intervention or serve as a control group. The intervention
formed mixed-group committees and provided them with funds to build
infrastructure that would benefit both communities; committees then
collaboratively chose and constructed infrastructure projects.\footnote{The
  communities built boreholes, market stalls, primary health care
  facilities, etc.} The program also provided mediation training to each
community's leaders. To measure the effects of the intervention, we
conducted pre- and post-intervention surveys, a post-intervention
natural public goods behavioral game,\footnote{In a public goods game
  (PGG), research subjects are given money and told they can keep the
  money or donate it to a public fund. Money donated to the public fund
  is multiplied by some amount and then shared with all subjects. Our
  PGG is \emph{natural} because it was conducted in a natural setting,
  rather than a lab. The funding for the PGG came from the National
  Science Foundation under Grant No. 1656871.} and twelve months of
systematic observations in markets and social events during the
intervention.

We find that the program assisted the groups in reducing their conflict.
Compared to the control group, the treatment group increased intergroup
contact and trust between the groups, and reduced physical violence and
insecurity experienced by group members. We find no evidence that the
program reduced outgroup threat or caused the groups to expand their
conception of ``ingroup'' to include the other side, two prominent
mechanisms for how intergroup contact reduces prejudice. The results
also suggests that intergroup contact for a relatively small percentage
of a group can indirectly affect attitudes of group members with no
exogenous increase in contact with the outgroup. We observe the most
positive changes from individuals directly involved in the intergroup
committees, but we also observe positive spillover to group members who
were not involved in the intergroup contact intervention.

This study expands our knowledge about intergroup conflict in several
ways. First, to our knowledge this is the first field experimental test
of a bottom-up peacebuilding program implemented by a peacebuilding
organization during an active conflict. We evaluated the program's
effects on both attitudinal and behavioral outcomes. The results suggest
that bottom-up psychologically-based peacebuilding programs can
effectively reduce conflict and is especially relevant to conflict
resolution in the cases of intergroup and intercommunal conflicts.

Second, this study is one of the only field experimental interventions
to test intergroup contact theory with groups actively engaged in
violence. Each of the groups in our study were part of an active and
escalating conflict, with members of each side being killed within one
year of the intervention's onset. Even in such a context, community
members who engaged in direct interpersonal interaction with an outgroup
member changed more positively than other community members.
Importantly, the intergroup contact involved achieving superordinate
goals that benefited both groups materially. This suggests that contact
with superordinate goals is robust to actively violent contexts.

Third, we contribute to the literature about the role of social
diffusion and social institutions in shaping attitudes and behaviors.
Bottom-up peacebuilding interventions seek to provide a structure in
which groups can solve their own conflicts, and those structures are
social rather than coercive. Understanding how those structures form and
are maintained is relevant to other institutional setups attempting to
influence behavior. In this study, though the greatest changes in
attitudes and behaviors were from individuals directly interacting with
outgroup members, the attitudes of other community members also
improved. This type of ``social effect'' is also a potential way to
``scale up'' the effects of intergroup contact.

Fourth, this paper's focus on farmer-pastoralist conflict is especially
important because the pastoralists are of the Fulani ethnic group. The
Fulani are the largest semi-nomadic people on Earth, but their way of
life makes them targets for violence throughout Africa. Along with this
conflict in Nigeria, Fulani in Mali have been the targets of violence so
severe that researchers at Armed Conflict Location \& Event Data Project
called it ``ethnic cleansing'' (Economist 2019). Understanding how to
prevent conflict between Fulani and settled peoples can help prevent the
eradication of a people and their way of life.

In the next section we provide a theoretical framework for how and why
bottom-up interventions that focus on prejudice reduction can reduce
intergroup violence. We then discuss Nigeria's farmer-pastoralist
conflict, our experimental intervention, and two designs to evaluate the
effect of the intervention. Last we present the results of the study and
conclude by connecting these findings to theories of group conflict and
prejudice.

\section{Theory}\label{theory}

\subsection{Intergroup Conflict as a Bargaining
Problem}\label{intergroup-conflict-as-a-bargaining-problem}

Intergroup conflict is most often conceptualized as a bargaining problem
(Fearon 1994b; Powell 2006), and most solutions to reducing intergroup
conflict strive to help the groups overcome those bargaining problems
(Di Salvatore and Ruggeri 2017). Intergroup conflict is a bargaining
problem because both groups want some resource -- land, power, etc --
but cannot reach an agreement about how to distribute that resource
peacefully. Because fighting is costly, the groups \emph{should} be able
to reach a bargained compromise without fighting. However, two
bargaining problems prevent this: information problems and commitment
problems. To successfully bargain, the groups need (1) accurate
information about each other, and (2) the assurance that each side will
abide by its agreements.

An \emph{information problem} arises because neither group has accurate
information about the other, and both groups have an incentive to
deceive the other. This causes bargaining failures because neither group
knows what payoff to expect from bargaining. A \emph{comittment problem}
arises because neither group can credibly commit to bargained agreements
in an uncertain and unstable strategic landscape. The strategic
landscape is uncertain and unstable because internal and external
factors that affect each group's preferences and capabilities are likely
to change. Internally, one group may disarm before the other, the groups
may have factions that reject the agreement, the groups may change
leaders, or group members attitudes may change for other reasons.
Externally, the groups may gain or lose de facto or de jure state
support, other external actors may switch allegiances, or some other
shock may change each group's power relative to the other {[}Fearon
(2004); chris: need to cite and add more{]}. Because their agreements
are not enforceable, both groups know that the other group cannot commit
to agreements if incentives change in the future. Without the ability to
commit to agreements, bargaining cannot truly begin.

Groups in conflict overcome these bargaining problems in several ways.
Groups can overcome information problems through fighting, as they learn
about each others capacity (Smith and Stam 2003). Groups can also
overcome information problems through mediation. A third party mediator
with no stake in the conflict can provide accurate information to both
sides, helping each side agree to the value each should receive from
bargaining.

Even if groups overcome information problems, they must still overcome
commitment problems. Groups can overcome commitment problems through
strong third parties that add large costs to reneging on agreements
(Doyle and Sambanis 2000; Fearon 1998; Powell 2006). Though each group
may have an incentive to defect on their agreement based on future
changes in the strategic environment, the groups have no incentive to
defect if a strong third party is capable and willing to punish
defection from bargained agreements. With a third party punishing
defection, the groups can bargain in good faith knowing that the other
will abide by its word. The international community often fill the role
of strong third party in intergroup disputes.

\subsection{The Persistence of Intergroup
Conflict}\label{the-persistence-of-intergroup-conflict}

If we know how to resolve intergroup conflict, why does conflict
persist? International mediation and intervention are dogged by two
issues of motivation. First, mediators, by their very nature, are
motivated for peace. But this motivation implies that information
provided by mediators is biased towards encouraging the groups to
negotiate a peace agreement. Since both groups know that mediators are
biased towards peace, mediators may not reduce information problems
(Kydd 2006; Smith and Stam 2003). Second, international actors may lack
the motivation to mediate or to intervene into the conflict, even if one
group reneges on its agreement. Intervention is costly and so
international actors cannot credibly commit to intervene into the
conflict unless they have a stake in the conflict (Kydd 2006).

This lack of motivation is especially relevant for intergroup conflict
between groups within a state. Most international actors and strong
third parties lack an incentive to intervene into intrastate intergroup
conflicts, and these disputes tend to take place within states that lack
the capacity to compel both sides themselves. Since intervention is
costly, strong third parties have an incentive to intervene only
\emph{after} fighting escalates, so intervention will generally not be
used to prevent conflict from escalating or to reduce the persistent,
smaller-scale violence that plague many countries. The lack of a strong
third party to prevent the intergroup bargaining failures that causes
persistent intergroup conflict is a serious barrier to peace.

Conflict also persist due to intergroup prejudice. Groups in competition
and conflict develop prejudiced attitudes that make peace difficult to
attain (Allport 1954; Sherif 1958). Conflicting groups think the
outgroup is untrustworthy, selfishly motivated, and innately bad. These
prejudiced attitudes feed the conflict and prevent the groups from
obtaining peace.

One way intergroup prejudice prevents peace is by exacerbating
bargaining problems. At their heart, information and commitment problems
are both problems of trust. For information problems, groups do not
trust the information they get from the other group. For commitment
problems, groups do not trust the other group to abide by its
agreements. Highly prejudiced groups are less likely to trust
information they receive from the other side or any peace commitment
they get from the other side. As a result, these groups are unlikely to
overcome problems of trust without third-party intervention.

These negative attitudes also change the payoff structure for
bargaining, both for leaders and for individuals who encounter
disagreements with outgroup members. The payoff an individual gets for
attitudes and behaviors depends largely on how those attitudes and
behaviors are received by their ingroup. These ``social payoffs''
constrain the actions of leaders and individual group members. In the
context of outgroup prejudice, the group might punish a leader for
cooperating or compromising with the outgroup (Fearon 1994a).
Individuals might get similarly socially punished for cooperating
instead of taking a hard stand against the other side's perceived
transgressions. Leaders of highly prejudiced groups also cannot credibly
commit to keep their group members in check. Individuals in highly
prejudiced groups might not engage in ingroup policing, a strong, costly
signal to the other side that your group will uphold its peace
agreements (Fearon and Laitin 1996). While cooperation and ingroup
policing might be punished, aggressive actions may be seen as righteous
self-defense of the ingroup and rewarded.

Along with social benefits from aggressive attitudes and behavior,
individuals might receive psychological benefits from conflict and from
social differentiation with the outgroup. Many groups define ``us'' by
positive differences with a ``them'', and an individual can derive
self-esteem from positively comparing their group identity to a rival
group (Brewer 1999; Tajfel 1981). When group members derive self-esteem
from feeling superior to an outgroup, group members may reject rhetoric
about group similarity due to cognitive dissonance it causes them. Group
members may also reject actions that recognize the outgroup as equals.

When there is no strong third party to enforce bargaining agreements,
commitment problems are often overcome by reputations. Reputations,
beliefs that groups have about the likely behavior of other actors,
allow groups to bargain and negotiate even without an organization
willing to punish defection from agreements. Though defecting may be
beneficial in one specific instance, groups may not defect because
getting a reputation for defecting on agreements harms a group's ability
to achieve agreements in the future. By relying on reputation and the
knowledge that groups desire good reputations, groups can coordinate in
the absence of a strong third party.

The reputation mechanism could prevent intergroup conflict but
reputations, too, are hampered by prejudice. Prejudice biases
interpretations of ingroup and outgroup behavior, which makes it very
difficult for a group to develop a positive reputation with a group they
are in conflict with, even when both groups are motivated to end the
conflict. Ingroups will perceive their own belligerent actions as
defensive and justified, and are more likely to perceive outgroup
actions as aggressive, negatively motivated, and unjustified {[}chris:
fundamental attribution error, group attribution error, biased
interpretations{]}. This bias likely pushes each group's perception of
the other side's willingness to make peace further from their true
willingness to make peace and so reputations hinder, rather than aid,
intergroup bargaining processes.

Reputations to prevent conflict are also hampered by a lack of
opportunities for groups to observe each others behavior and to learn
the outgroup's reputation. Compounding that problem, few of the
outgroup's interactions will be with groups in which the outgroup's
behavior towards that group is relevant for the outgroup's behavior
towards my group. This means that the main opportunity to observe
outgroup behavior and learn their reputation is your own interactions
with the outgroup. For groups in conflict, these opportunities are
likely rare and almost always adversarial.

(This also means that the outgroup has less incentive to cooperate with
your ingroup because they are less likely to be punished for defecting
in a world where reputation is built off of \emph{experienced}
interactions, rather than previous \emph{observed} interactions.
{[}chris: Scott Page's coursera on overcoming collective action problems
cites a model where the more people who can see your interaction the
more incentive you have to cooperate.{]}. Not sure this is relevant.)

\subsection{Psychological Reconciliation to Reduce Prejudice and
Conflict}\label{psychological-reconciliation-to-reduce-prejudice-and-conflict}

The problems of negative intergroup attitudes suggests that improving
those attitudes could lead to peace-promoting behaviors and reduce
conflict. One of the most promising approaches to improving intergroup
attitudes comes from intergroup contact theory. Intergroup contact
theory hypothesizes that interactions in which group members cooperate
to achieve shared goals will reduce prejudice. Reducing prejudice can
help groups overcome bargaining problems and reduce the likelihood of
violence.

When groups are in conflict, most incidental intergroup contact will be
highly adversarial. Intergroup contact theory posits several conditions
necessary for intergroup contact to reduce prejudice. Groups must
cooperate with equal status to achieve shared goals with the support of
elites. Intergroup contact under these conditions gives the ability give
strong costly signals about a group's reputation and the ``group type''
as a conditional complier: we will honor our agreements if you honor
yours. And about perceptual fairness/unbiasedness: we will interpret
things you do fairly and we will interpret things we do fairly (i.e.~we
will not think everything we do is justified and everything you do is
unjustified).

It is important for the intergroup contact to focus on superordinate
goals (Sherif 1958).

Could improve reputations/remove stereotypes. Increase perception of
trustworthiness/intergroup trust. Contact gives opportunity for costly
signals. Reputations will help groups overcome information and
commitment problems. Groups trust information they get from the other
group. Groups trust the other group to abide by agreements because they
believe the other group is also motivated by peace.

Can give group members interactions that reduce perceptual biases. Can
decrease prejudice and encourage ingroup policing. Decrease prejudice
also allows leaders to credibly commit entire group to peace. Encourage
ingroup policing. Create norms against prejudice and violence, or
connect existing norms to the outgroup by humanizing the outgroup.

Could improve dispute resolution and reduce conflict over resources.
Encourage sharing resources \emph{or} separation of resources. Mediation
training -- help community leaders resolve disputes.

Could decrease threat, though in cases of active conflict this might
exacerbate rather than solve conflict (information about reduced
outgroup threat == higher chance of my group winning).

Could increase empathy. Seeing the other side's argument, seeing their
motivations. Increase empathy/less prejudice helps interpret information
in non-biased way. {[}Chris: cite literature on empathy making me
interpret information about other people more accurately. Kertzer?{]}

Could expand ingroup/make group similarities salient. Seeing our two
groups as one, seeing our incentives as aligned.

Groups work together to gain more material resources, improves us now,
makes me think working together in the \emph{future} would be good.

Can give group members the capacity to affect conflict.

As an alternative to top-down international intervention to reduce
conflict, bottom-up peacebuilding programs can reduce conflict by
focusing on both the immediate economic concerns contributing to
conflict (superordinate goals?) and the psychological attitudes
contributing to conflict. Bottom-up psychological reconciliation
programs should work for the types of conflicts for which international
intervention is rarely used and is unlikely to be successful. Persistent
intergroup conflict that plagues many countries. Low-level conflict
before it builds to large-scale conflict. There are XX conflicts of this
type accounting for XX deaths each year.

\subsection{Why Bottom-up Programs Could
Fail}\label{why-bottom-up-programs-could-fail}

Yet bottom-up peacebuilding generally, and intergroup contact
specifically, may not work in contexts of ongoing violence. As with
mediation and intervention, bottom-up reconciliation programs may be
ineffective while conflict is going on and only effective at maintaining
peace once the formal conflict has ended. Many reasons contact may not
work in this context.

Intergroup conflict is commitment problem solved by strong third party
(Fearon 1994b; Powell 2006) and bottom-up programs do not provide a
strong third party that can enforce commitments. Psychological
reconciliation is not how we've thought of solving commitment problems
between conflicting groups or improving reputations. Can psych
reconciliation improve reputations in contexts of ongoing violence?

Psychological reconciliation can prevent resumption of conflict but
requires conflict to already be resolved (Bar-Tal 2000). Active conflict
produces many grievances and high prejudice; cognitive dissonance causes
backlash for the most prejudiced people (Festinger 1962; Gubler 2011).
Negative contact experiences reinforce negative stereotypes (Paolini,
Harwood, and Rubin 2010). Motivated reasoning for attitudes towards
others (Klein and Kunda 1992). If you don't want to like someone, you
will find a reason not to.

Underlying cause of conflict still present. Groups still engage in
competition for resources, which breeds conflict (Campbell 1965; Sherif
et al. 1988).

Few norms against prejudice, possibly group norms that support this
particular intergroup prejudice. If intergroup contact works by
activating ``norms against prejudice'', unlikely to work here.

Intergroup contact may only reduce prejudice from high-status group to
low-status group.

\subsection{Hypotheses}\label{hypotheses}

\textbf{Main}

Increased trust.

Increased affect.

Increased cooperation.

Increased physical security. Decreased violence experienced.

Increased contact.

\textbf{Secondary}

Increased dispute resolution success

Decreased threat

Ingroup expansion? (social cohesion 1)

Intergroup empathy? (social cohesion 2)

Perceptions of benefit

Sharing resources

\section*{References}\label{references}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{References}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\hypertarget{ref-allison1985group}{}
Allison, Scott T, and David M Messick. 1985. ``The Group Attribution
Error.'' \emph{Journal of Experimental Social Psychology} 21(6):
563--79.

\hypertarget{ref-allport1954prejudice}{}
Allport, Gordon. 1954. ``The Nature of Prejudice.'' \emph{Garden City,
NJ Anchor}.

\hypertarget{ref-autesserre2016failure}{}
Autesserre, Severine. 2016. ``The Responsibility to Protect in Congo:
The Failure of Grassroots Prevention.'' \emph{International
Peacekeeping} 23(1): 29--51.

\hypertarget{ref-autesserre2017international}{}
---------. 2017. ``International Peacebuilding and Local Success:
Assumptions and Effectiveness.'' \emph{International Studies Review}
19(1): 114--32.

\hypertarget{ref-autesserre2019crisis}{}
---------. 2019. ``The Crisis of Peacekeeping: Why the Un Can't End
Wars.'' \emph{Foreign Affairs}.
\url{https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/2018-12-11/crisis-peacekeeping}.

\hypertarget{ref-autesserre2010trouble}{}
Autesserre, Séverine. 2010. 115 \emph{The Trouble with the Congo: Local
Violence and the Failure of International Peacebuilding}. Cambridge
University Press.

\hypertarget{ref-bar2000intractable}{}
Bar-Tal, Daniel. 2000. ``From Intractable Conflict Through Conflict
Resolution to Reconciliation: Psychological Analysis.'' \emph{Political
Psychology} 21(2): 351--65.

\hypertarget{ref-barnett1997security}{}
Barnett, Michael N. 1997. ``The Un Security Council, Indifference, and
Genocide in Rwanda.'' \emph{Cultural Anthropology} 12(4): 551--78.

\hypertarget{ref-barnhardt2009near}{}
Barnhardt, Sharon. 2009. ``Near and Dear? Evaluating the Impact of
Neighbor Diversity on Inter-Religious Attitudes.'' \emph{Unpublished
working paper}.

\hypertarget{ref-beardsley2008agreement}{}
Beardsley, Kyle. 2008. ``Agreement Without Peace? International
Mediation and Time Inconsistency Problems.'' \emph{American journal of
political science} 52(4): 723--40.

\hypertarget{ref-bratt1996assessing}{}
Bratt, Duane. 1996. ``Assessing the Success of Un Peacekeeping
Operations.'' \emph{International Peacekeeping} 3(4): 64--81.

\hypertarget{ref-brewer1999ingroupOutgroup}{}
Brewer, Marilynn B. 1999. ``The Psychology of Prejudice: Ingroup Love
and Outgroup Hate?'' \emph{Journal of social issues} 55(3): 429--44.

\hypertarget{ref-burns2015interaction}{}
Burns, Justine, Lucia Corno, and Eliana La Ferrara. 2015.
\emph{Interaction, Prejudice and Performance. Evidence from South
Africa}. Working paper.

\hypertarget{ref-campbell1965ethno}{}
Campbell, Donald T. 1965. ``Ethnocentric and Other Altruistic Motives.''
In \emph{Nebraska Symposium on Motivation}, 283--311.

\hypertarget{ref-dallaire2009shake}{}
Dallaire, Romeo. 2009. \emph{Shake Hands with the Devil: The Failure of
Humanity in Rwanda}. Vintage Canada.

\hypertarget{ref-daniel2018anti}{}
Daniel, Soni. 2018. ``Anti-Open Grazing Law: Nass, Benue, Kwara, Taraba
Tackle Defence Minister.'' \emph{Vanguard}.
\url{https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/06/anti-open-grazing-law-nass-benue-kwara-taraba-tackle-defence-minister/}.

\hypertarget{ref-di2017effectiveness}{}
Di Salvatore, Jessica, and Andrea Ruggeri. 2017. ``Effectiveness of
Peacekeeping Operations.'' \emph{Oxford Research Encyclopedia of
Politics}.

\hypertarget{ref-ditlmann2016can}{}
Ditlmann, Ruth K, and Cyrus Samii. 2016. ``Can Intergroup Contact Affect
Ingroup Dynamics? Insights from a Field Study with Jewish and
Arab-Palestinian Youth in Israel.'' \emph{Peace and Conflict: Journal of
Peace Psychology} 22(4): 380.

\hypertarget{ref-ditlmann2017addressing}{}
Ditlmann, Ruth K, Cyrus Samii, and Thomas Zeitzoff. 2017. ``Addressing
Violent Intergroup Conflict from the Bottom up?'' \emph{Social Issues
and Policy Review} 11(1): 38--77.

\hypertarget{ref-doyle2000international}{}
Doyle, Michael W, and Nicholas Sambanis. 2000. ``International
Peacebuilding: A Theoretical and Quantitative Analysis.'' \emph{American
political science review} 94(4): 779--801.

\hypertarget{ref-doyle2006making}{}
---------. 2006. \emph{Making War and Building Peace: United Nations
Peace Operations}. Princeton University Press.

\hypertarget{ref-duru2018court}{}
Duru, Peter. 2018. ``Court Stops Inspector General from Proscribing
Benue Livestock Guard.'' \emph{Vanguard}.
\url{https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/11/court-stops-ig-from-proscribing-benue-livestock-guards/}.

\hypertarget{ref-economist2019militias}{}
Economist, The. 2019. ``Malicious Malitias: States in the Sahel Have
Unleashed Ethnic Gangs with Guns.'' \emph{The Economist}.
\url{https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2019/05/04/states-in-the-sahel-have-unleashed-ethnic-gangs-with-guns}.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon1994domestic}{}
Fearon, James D. 1994a. ``Domestic Political Audiences and the
Escalation of International Disputes.'' \emph{American political science
review} 88(3): 577--92.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon1994ethnic}{}
---------. 1994b. ``Ethnic War as a Commitment Problem.'' In
\emph{Annual Meetings of the American Political Science Association},
2--5.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon1995rationalist}{}
---------. 1995. ``Rationalist Explanations for War.''
\emph{International organization} 49(3): 379--414.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon1998commitment}{}
---------. 1998. ``Commitment Problems and the Spread of Ethnic
Conflict.'' \emph{The international spread of ethnic conflict} 107.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon2004civil}{}
---------. 2004. ``Why Do Some Civil Wars Last so Much Longer Than
Others?'' \emph{Journal of peace research} 41(3): 275--301.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon1996explaining}{}
Fearon, James D, and David D Laitin. 1996. ``Explaining Interethnic
Cooperation.'' \emph{American political science review} 90(4): 715--35.

\hypertarget{ref-festinger1962cognitiveDissonance}{}
Festinger, Leon. 1962. 2 \emph{A Theory of Cognitive Dissonance}.
Stanford university press.

\hypertarget{ref-fetherston1994unprofor}{}
Fetherston, A Betts, Oliver Ramsbotham, and Tom Woodhouse. 1994.
``UNPROFOR: Some Observations from a Conflict Resolution Perspective.''
\emph{International Peacekeeping} 1(2): 179--203.

\hypertarget{ref-gaertner2000reducing}{}
Gaertner, Samuel L et al. 2000. ``Reducing Intergroup Conflict: From
Superordinate Goals to Decategorization, Recategorization, and Mutual
Differentiation.'' \emph{Group Dynamics: Theory, Research, and Practice}
4(1): 98.

\hypertarget{ref-gartner2011signs}{}
Gartner, Scott Sigmund. 2011. ``Signs of Trouble: Regional Organization
Mediation and Civil War Agreement Durability.'' \emph{The Journal of
Politics} 73(2): 380--90.

\hypertarget{ref-gilligan2008interventions}{}
Gilligan, Michael J, Ernest J Sergenti, and others. 2008. ``Do Un
Interventions Cause Peace? Using Matching to Improve Causal Inference.''
\emph{Quarterly Journal of Political Science} 3(2): 89--122.

\hypertarget{ref-gubler2011diss}{}
Gubler, Joshua R. 2011. ``The Micro-Motives of Intergroup Aggression: A
Case Study in Israel.'' PhD thesis.

\hypertarget{ref-gubler2013humanizing}{}
---------. 2013. ``When Humanizing the Enemy Fails: The Role of
Dissonance and Justification in Intergroup Conflict.'' In \emph{Annual
Meeting of the American Political Science Association},

\hypertarget{ref-hartzell2001stabilizing}{}
Hartzell, Caroline, Matthew Hoddie, and Donald Rothchild. 2001.
``Stabilizing the Peace After Civil War: An Investigation of Some Key
Variables.'' \emph{International organization} 55(1): 183--208.

\hypertarget{ref-hewstone1990ultimate}{}
Hewstone, Miles. 1990. ``The `Ultimate Attribution Error'? A Review of
the Literature on Intergroup Causal Attribution.'' \emph{European
Journal of Social Psychology} 20(4): 311--35.

\hypertarget{ref-klein1992motivated}{}
Klein, William M, and Ziva Kunda. 1992. ``Motivated Person Perception:
Constructing Justifications for Desired Beliefs.'' \emph{Journal of
experimental social psychology} 28(2): 145--68.

\hypertarget{ref-kydd2006can}{}
Kydd, Andrew H. 2006. ``When Can Mediators Build Trust?'' \emph{American
Political Science Review} 100(3): 449--62.

\hypertarget{ref-marmaros2006friendships}{}
Marmaros, David, and Bruce Sacerdote. 2006. ``How Do Friendships Form?''
\emph{The Quarterly Journal of Economics} 121(1): 79--119.

\hypertarget{ref-mcdonnel2017graze}{}
McDonnel, Tim. 2017. ``Why It's Now a Crime to Let Cattle Graze Freely
in 2 Nigerian States.'' \emph{National Public Radio (NPR)}.
\url{https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2017/12/12/569913821/why-its-now-a-crime-to-let-cattle-graze-freely-in-2-nigerian-states}.

\hypertarget{ref-mcdougal2015effect}{}
McDougal, Topher L et al. 2015. ``The Effect of Farmer-Pastoralist
Violence on Income: New Survey Evidence from Nigeria's Middle Belt
States.'' \emph{Economics of Peace and Security Journal} 10(1): 54--65.

\hypertarget{ref-paluck2017contact}{}
Paluck, Elizabeth Levy, Seth Green, and Donald P Green. 2017. ``The
Contact Hypothesis Revisited.''

\hypertarget{ref-paolini2010negative}{}
Paolini, Stefania, Jake Harwood, and Mark Rubin. 2010. ``Negative
Intergroup Contact Makes Group Memberships Salient: Explaining Why
Intergroup Conflict Endures.'' \emph{Personality and Social Psychology
Bulletin} 36(12): 1723--38.

\hypertarget{ref-paris2003peacekeeping}{}
Paris, Roland. 2003. ``Peacekeeping and the Constraints of Global
Culture.'' \emph{European Journal of International Relations} 9(3):
441--73.

\hypertarget{ref-pettigrew1979ultimate}{}
Pettigrew, Thomas F. 1979. ``The Ultimate Attribution Error: Extending
Allport's Cognitive Analysis of Prejudice.'' \emph{Personality and
social psychology bulletin} 5(4): 461--76.

\hypertarget{ref-pettigrew2006meta}{}
Pettigrew, Thomas F, and Linda R Tropp. 2006. ``A Meta-Analytic Test of
Intergroup Contact Theory.'' \emph{Journal of personality and social
psychology} 90(5): 751.

\hypertarget{ref-pettigrew2008does}{}
---------. 2008. ``How Does Intergroup Contact Reduce Prejudice?
Meta-Analytic Tests of Three Mediators.'' \emph{European Journal of
Social Psychology} 38(6): 922--34.

\hypertarget{ref-powell2006war}{}
Powell, Robert. 2006. ``War as a Commitment Problem.''
\emph{International organization} 60(1): 169--203.

\hypertarget{ref-regan2002third}{}
Regan, Patrick M. 2002. ``Third-Party Interventions and the Duration of
Intrastate Conflicts.'' \emph{Journal of Conflict Resolution} 46(1):
55--73.

\hypertarget{ref-safunu2012grassroots}{}
Safunu, Banchani John-Paul. 2012. ``Do Grassroots Approaches and
Mobilization for Development Contribute to Post-Conflict Peacebuilding?
The Experience of Northern Ghana.'' \emph{Nairobi: Africa Leadership
Center}.

\hypertarget{ref-Scacco2016}{}
Scacco, Alexandra, and Shana S Warren. 2016. ``Youth Vocational Training
and Conflict Mitigation: An Experimental Test of Social Contact Theory
in Nigeria.''

\hypertarget{ref-shannon2009preventing}{}
Shannon, Megan. 2009. ``Preventing War and Providing the Peace?
International Organizations and the Management of Territorial
Disputes.'' \emph{Conflict Management and Peace Science} 26(2): 144--63.

\hypertarget{ref-sherif1958superordinate}{}
Sherif, Muzafer. 1958. ``Superordinate Goals in the Reduction of
Intergroup Conflict.'' \emph{American journal of Sociology} 63(4):
349--56.

\hypertarget{ref-Sherif1988robbersCave}{}
Sherif, Muzafer et al. 1988. ``Intergroup Conflict and Cooperation: The
Robbers Cave Experiment, Norman: Institute of Group Relations,
University of Oklahoma.''

\hypertarget{ref-smith2003mediation}{}
Smith, Alastair, and Allan Stam. 2003. ``Mediation and Peacekeeping in a
Random Walk Model of Civil and Interstate War.'' \emph{International
Studies Review} 5(4): 115--35.

\hypertarget{ref-tajfel1981groups}{}
Tajfel, Henri. 1981. \emph{Human Groups and Social Categories: Studies
in Social Psychology}. CUP Archive.

\hypertarget{ref-wallensteen2014talking}{}
Wallensteen, Peter, and Isak Svensson. 2014. ``Talking Peace:
International Mediation in Armed Conflicts.'' \emph{Journal of Peace
Research} 51(2): 315--27.

\hypertarget{ref-walter2002committing}{}
Walter, Barbara F. 2002. \emph{Committing to Peace: The Successful
Settlement of Civil Wars}. Princeton University Press.

\hypertarget{ref-weinstein2005autonomous}{}
Weinstein, Jeremy M. 2005. ``Autonomous Recovery and International
Intervention in Comparative Perspective.'' \emph{Available at SSRN
1114117}.

\hypertarget{ref-yablon2012we}{}
Yablon, Yaacov B. 2012. ``Are We Preaching to the Converted? The Role of
Motivation in Understanding the Contribution of Intergroup Encounters.''
\emph{Journal of Peace Education} 9(3): 249--63.

\end{document}
