%\documentclass[]{article}
\documentclass[11pt]{article}
\usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames]{xcolor}

\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
%\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{tgtermes}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
%\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage[letterpaper,bottom=1in,top=1in,right=1.25in,left=1.25in,includemp=FALSE]{geometry}
\usepackage{pdfpages}
\usepackage[small]{caption}

\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{\usepackage{microtype}}{}
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
\usepackage{fontspec}
\ifxetex
\usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
\fi
\defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
\newcommand{\euro}{€}
\fi
%

\usepackage{fancyvrb}

\usepackage{ctable,longtable}

\usepackage[section]{placeins}
\usepackage{float} % provides the H option for float placement
\restylefloat{figure}
\usepackage{dcolumn} % allows for different column alignments
\newcolumntype{.}{D{.}{.}{1.2}}

\usepackage{booktabs} % nicer horizontal rules in tables

%Assume we want graphics always
\usepackage{graphicx}
% We will generate all images so they have a width \maxwidth. This means
% that they will get their normal width if they fit onto the page, but
% are scaled down if they would overflow the margins.
%% \makeatletter
%% \def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth
%%   \else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
%% \makeatother
%% \let\Oldincludegraphics\includegraphics
%% \renewcommand{\includegraphics}[1]{\Oldincludegraphics[width=\maxwidth]{#1}}
\graphicspath{{.}{../Soccom_Code/socom_2013/}}


%% \ifxetex
%% \usepackage[pagebackref=true, setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
%% unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
%% xetex]{hyperref}
%% \else
\usepackage[pagebackref=true, unicode=true, bookmarks=true, pdftex]{hyperref}
% \fi


\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
  bookmarks=true,
  pdfauthor={Christopher Grady},
  pdftitle={Promoting Peace Amidst Escalating Conflict: An Intergroup Contact Field Experiment in Nigeria},
  colorlinks=true,
  linkcolor=BrickRed,
  citecolor=blue, %MidnightBlue,
  urlcolor=BrickRed,
  % urlcolor=blue,
  % linkcolor=magenta,
  pdfborder={0 0 0}}

%\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
%\setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
\usepackage{parskip}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}

%% Insist on this.
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{2}

\VerbatimFootnotes % allows verbatim text in footnotes

\title{Promoting Peace Amidst Escalating Conflict: An Intergroup Contact Field
Experiment in Nigeria}

\author{
Christopher Grady
}


\date{April 18, 2019}


\usepackage{versions}
\makeatletter
\renewcommand*\versionmessage[2]{\typeout{*** `#1' #2. ***}}
\renewcommand*\beginmarkversion{\sffamily}
  \renewcommand*\endmarkversion{}
\makeatother

\excludeversion{comment}

%\usepackage[margins=1in]{geometry}

\usepackage[compact,bottomtitles]{titlesec}
%\titleformat{ ⟨command⟩}[⟨shape⟩]{⟨format⟩}{⟨label⟩}{⟨sep⟩}{⟨before⟩}[⟨after⟩]
\titleformat{\section}[hang]{\Large\bfseries}{\thesection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\subsection}[hang]{\large\bfseries}{\thesubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{1ex}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\bfseries\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}}
%\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}}

%%\titleformat{\subsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%%%\titleformat*{\subsection}{\bfseries\scshape}
%%%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[leftmargin]{\footnotesize\filleft}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{}{}
%%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\small\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%%\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.5\baselineskip}}

%\titlespacing*{ ⟨command⟩}{⟨left⟩}{⟨beforesep⟩}{⟨aftersep⟩}[⟨right⟩]
\titlespacing{\section}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}
\titlespacing{\subsection}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}
\titlespacing{\subsubsection}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}



%% These next lines tell latex that it is ok to have a single graphic
%% taking up most of a page, and they also decrease the space around
%% figures and tables.
\renewcommand\floatpagefraction{.9}
\renewcommand\topfraction{.9}
\renewcommand\bottomfraction{.9}
\renewcommand\textfraction{.1}
\setcounter{totalnumber}{50}
\setcounter{topnumber}{50}
\setcounter{bottomnumber}{50}
\setlength{\intextsep}{2ex}
\setlength{\floatsep}{2ex}
\setlength{\textfloatsep}{2ex}



\begin{document}
\VerbatimFootnotes

%\begin{titlepage}
%  \maketitle
%\vspace{2in}
%
%\begin{center}
%  \begin{large}
%    PROPOSAL WHITE PAPER
%
%BAA 14-013
%
%Can a Hausa Language Television Station Change Norms about Violence in Northern Nigeria? A Randomized Study of Media Effects on Violent Extremism
%
%Jake Bowers
%
%University of Illinois @ Urbana-Champaign (jwbowers@illinois.edu)
%
%\url{http://jakebowers.org}
%
%Phone: +12179792179
%
%Topic Number: 1
%
%Topic Title: Identity, Influence and Mobilization
%
%\end{large}
%\end{center}
%\end{titlepage}

\maketitle

\begin{abstract}

Intergroup conflict has caused millions of deaths in recent decades.  In this paper we test the ability of psychological reconciliation through intergroup contact to contribute to peace between groups involved in violent conflict.  Intergroup conflict often mitigated by international intervention, like foreign military intervention (or peacekeepers) and dispute mediation.  However, international intervention is not always effective at reducing intergroup conflicts.  We propose psychological reconciliation through intergroup contact as an alternative to large-scale international intervention.  Groups in conflict develop negative attitudes about the other group that make peace impossible.  Outside intervention often serve as substitutes for positive intergroup attitudes, but psychological reconciliation could improve intergroup attitudes directly.  Improved intergroup attitudes should allow the conflicting groups to settle disputes even in the absence of outside intervention.  We test the ability of psychological reconciliation programs to promote peace between violently conflicting groups with a field experiment in Nigeria, where farmer and pastoralist communities are embroiled in a deadly conflict over land use.  We find that the programs increase intergroup trust and the physical security of group members.  We do not find evidence for alternative mechanisms through which psychological reconciliation could reduce violence, such as reducing outgroup threat or expanding the conception of ingroup to include the former outgroup.  These results suggest that psychological reconciliation can promote peace between groups in conflict.

\end{abstract}

\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}

Intergroup conflict is responsible for many of the worst displays of
human nature. In Nigeria, intergroup conflict between farmers and
pastoralists has claimed countless lives and destroyed countless
communities. As the conflict escalated, groups of anti-pastoralist
vigilantes mobilized to pre-emptively prevent pastoralists from
encroaching on land claimed by farmers (Duru 2018; McDonnel 2017). These
groups, dubbed the ``livestock guard'', often ransacked pastoralist
settlements and violently drove pastoralists from their homes. Likewise,
pastoralist groups often enacted vigilante justice, raiding and burning
down farming villages seen to encroach on land claimed by pastoralists.
Raids such as these forced up to 180,000 people from their homes in 2018
(Daniel 2018) and farmer-pastoralist conflict costs Nigeria \$13 billion
of lost economic productivity annually (McDougal et al. 2015)

Yet in one village, farmers and pastoralists defended each other. When a
group of livestock guard came for one pastoralist settlement, the
neighboring farming village arrested them to protect the pastoralists.
After the arrest, farmers and pastoralists convened to decide what
should be done with the prisoners. They agreed that the group of
livestock guard should not be punished, but should be disarmed and
released home -- a proposition proposed by \emph{the pastoralists}.
These farmers and pastoralists had also struggled with conflict, and
people on both sides had died in disputes over farmland and grazing
land. But their disputes had not escalated to the point that each side
wanted the other removed by any means necessary. They had created
structures that allowed them to settle disputes, and the same structures
allowed them to reach a solution about the livestock guard.

Why were some farmer and pastoralist groups able to keep peace whereas
others were swallowed by the escalating conflict? Why did farmers assist
the livestock guard in some areas but obstruct them in others? Why were
some communities able to overcome their intergroup disputes whereas
others were destroyed by them? Understanding how groups resolve their
own disputes is important for mitigating and preventing the myriad
intergroup conflicts around the world.

Most literature and policy about peacebuilding and preventing intergroup
conflict revolves around international intervention into the conflict
{[}Severine Autesserre (2017); Smith and Stam (2003); cite more{]}.
Intervention from outside the conflict helps the conflicting actors
overcome bargaining failures that lead to conflict (Fearon 1994, 1995;
Powell 2006; Smith and Stam 2003). Outside actors like the UN frequently
intervene to prevent violence and mediate disputes, as they did in
Croatia and Bosnia, Sierra Leone, Guatemala, and India and Pakistan.
Ideally, peacekeepers protect bystanders and prevent more violent
conflict while mediation assists the two groups in settling disputes
peacefully. In the aggregate, research shows that peacekeeping and
mediation are effective strategies to promote peace in many conflicts
{[}Doyle and Sambanis (2000); cite more{]}.

While international intervention has been successful in many contexts
and conditions, several intergroup conflicts seem outside of these
conditions. International intervention is often unsuccessful --
Weinstein (2005) estimated that 75\% of civil wars resume within 10
years of UN intervention. Notably, international intervention failed to
stop intergroup conflicts in DRC (Séverine Autesserre and Autesserre
2010), Somalia (Severine Autesserre January/February 2019), and Rwanda
(Dallaire 2009). One reason for these failures is that international
intervention is often more influenced by international norms about what
strategies \emph{should} work than finding the strategies that are most
likely to work in a given context (Paris 2003). But international
intervention has also been criticized for not solving the underlying
problems that cause conflict -- a band-aid when the conflict needs a
doctor (Severine Autesserre January/February 2019).

Even for contexts when international intervention would be successful,
it is not always feasible or timely. Before intervention can occur, the
international community must agree on an appropriate intervention and
make large commitments of forces and financing. As a result,
international intervention often comes late and costs billions of
dollars. Even if international intervention would successfully mediate
many conflicts, intervention maybe too late and is unlikely to be
applied unless preventing the conflict is an international priority.

While most attempts to reduce violent conflict between groups are
top-down, scholars and practitioners have called for more consideration
of bottom-up strategies (Severine Autesserre 2017; Ditlmann, Samii, and
Zeitzoff 2017; Safunu 2012). Bottom-up strategies focus on engaging
local actors and assisting them in reducing group conflict. Conflicts at
local levels are often driven and perpetuated by intergroup animosity
long after the original grievance is forgotten {[}McDonnel (2017); cite
more about intergroup animosity{]}. The intergroup animosity and
strongly negative attitudes can be an insurmountable barrier to peace.
Individuals often motivatedly reason to rationalize their beliefs, which
leads to biased processing of information about outgroup members'
behavior -- behavior by outgroup members may be perceived as more
threatening and more malicious than the same behavior committed by a
neutral party {[}cite fundamental attribution error, motivated
reasoning{]}. This biased information processing reinforces negative
group stereotypes and can subvert the groups' own attempts to foster
peace. It can also sabotage intergroup bargaining by causing the groups
to have incorrect beliefs about each other, adding to information and
commitment problems that cause conflict. Bottom-up strategies that help
reduce group prejudice could help the groups achieve peace without the
large-scale international intervention efforts most commonly used to
build peace.

One of the most promising approaches to reducing intergroup prejudice
and violence comes from intergroup contact theory. Intergroup contact
theory hypothesizes that interactions in which group members cooperate
to achieve shared goals will reduce prejudice and the likelihood of
violence. Intergroup contact works by demystifying the outgroup,
presenting the other group's perspective, and replacing imagined
stereotypes with firsthand knowledge (Pettigrew and Tropp 2008). The
prejudice-reducing effects of intergroup contact have been demonstrated
in a variety of countries and using a variety of methodological
approaches (Paluck, Green, and Green 2017; Pettigrew and Tropp 2006).
Notably, intergroup contacted programs reduced prejudice between whites
and blacks in the U.S. and South Africa (Burns, Corno, and La Ferrara
2015; Marmaros and Sacerdote 2006), Jews and Arabs (Ditlmann and Samii
2016; Yablon 2012), Muslims and Christians (Scacco and Warren 2016), and
Hindus and Muslims (Barnhardt 2009). Peacebuilding programs utilizing
intergroup contact and other activities are increasing used to reduce
intergroup conflict by peacebuilding organizations (Ditlmann, Samii, and
Zeitzoff 2017).

Although research shows support for intergroup contact theory generally,
its efficacy to reduce prejudice amid \emph{real-world} conflict is an
open question. First, most research about intergroup contact uses
correlational studies or lab experiments, both of which have
methodological weaknesses. Correlational studies cannot demonstrate
causal effects, and results from lab experiments may not apply to real
world conflicts, where groups compete for resources and share a history
of intergroup violence (Ditlmann, Samii, and Zeitzoff 2017). Second, no
prior studies of intergroup contact have involved groups engaged in
active intergroup violence\footnote{Previous studies have involved
  groups with a history of violence conflict -- see Scacco and Warren
  (2016) and Ditlmann and Samii (2016).}, and some studies suggest that
intergroup contact in violent settings will be ineffective or even
backfire (Gubler 2013; Paolini, Harwood, and Rubin 2010). Negative
experiences with outgroups increase prejudice, and the most prejudiced
individuals are most likely to interpret intergroup contact negatively.
Despite a lack of evidence about the effects of bottom-up peacebuilding
programs in violent contexts, and the risks of programs going badly,
peacebuilding organizations implement numerous bottom-up interventions
in violent contexts each year. Though well-intentioned, these programs
may do more harm than good.

To study the effect of grassroots interventions on violent conflict, we
conduct a field experiment with farmer and pastoralist communities
Nigeria to determine if an intergroup contact-based program effectively
reduces prejudice and violent conflict. We randomly assigned communities
with farmer-pastoralist violence to receive the peacebuilding
intervention or serve as a control group. The intervention formed
mixed-group committees and provided them with funds to build
infrastructure that would benefit both communities; committees then
collaboratively chose and constructed infrastructure projects.\footnote{The
  communities built boreholes, market stalls, primary health care
  facilities, etc.} The program also provided mediation training to each
community's leaders. To measure the effects of the intervention, we
conducted pre- and post-intervention surveys, a post-intervention
natural public goods behavioral game,\footnote{In a public goods game
  (PGG), research subjects are given money and told they can keep the
  money or donate it to a public fund. Money donated to the public fund
  is multiplied by some amount and then shared with all subjects. My PGG
  is \emph{natural} because it was conducted in a natural setting,
  rather than a lab. The funding for the PGG came from the National
  Science Foundation under Grant No. 1656871.} and twelve months of
systematic observations in markets and social events during the
intervention.

We find that the program assisted the groups in reducing their conflict.
Compared to the control group, the treatment group increased intergroup
contact, trust between the groups, and physical security of the group
members. We find no evidence that the program reduced outgroup threat or
caused the groups to expand their conception of ``ingroup'' to include
the other side, two prominent mechanisms for how intergroup contact
reduces prejudice. The results also suggests that intergroup contact for
a relatively small percentage of a group can affect attitudes of group
members with no exogenous increase in contact with the outgroup. At the
individual-level, we observe the most positive changes from individuals
directly involved in the intergroup committees, but we also observe
positive changes in the intergroup trust and physical security of group
members who were not involved in the intergroup contact intervention.

This study expands our knowledge about intergroup conflict in several
ways. First, to our knowledge this is the first field experimental test
of a grassroots peacebuilding program implemented by a peacebuilding
organization during an active conflict. We evaluated the program's
effects on both attitudinal and behavioral outcomes. The results suggest
that grassroots peacebuilding programs can effectively reduce conflict
and is especially relevant to conflict resolution in the cases of
intergroup and intercommunal conflicts.

Second, this study is one of the only field experimental interventions
to test intergroup contact theory with groups actively engaged in
violence. Each of the groups in our study were part of an active and
escalating conflict, with members of each side being killed within one
year of the intervention's onset. Even in such a context, community
members who engaged in direct interpersonal interaction with an outgroup
member changed more positively than other community members.

Third, we contribute to the literature about the role of social norms
and social institutions in shaping attitudes and behaviors. Bottom-up
peacebuilding interventions seek to provide a structure in which groups
can solve their own conflicts, and those structures are social rather
than coercive. Understanding how those structures form and are
maintained is relevant to other institutional setups attempting to
influence behavior. In this study, though the greatest changes in
attitudes and behaviors were from individuals directly interacting with
outgroup members, the attitudes of other community members also
improved. This type of ``social effect'' is also a potential way to
``scale up'' the effects of intergroup contact.

Future work should further investigate mechanisms through which
grassroots strategies can be successful. Conditions under which
different conflict resolution strategies are successful -- when outside
actors needed, when groups can be assisted in solving own conflict.
Future work should also investigate ``scaling up'' grassroots
interventions, especially those involving intergroup contact. Not every
conflicting group can have contact with the other side. Contact between
key actors that could diffuse the positive effects of contact \& change
social norms. And research shows that even \emph{observing} interactions
between a member of your group and a member of a disliked group can
improve attitudes (Vezzali et al. 2014). Television and radio programs
may thus provide intergroup contact between groups with limited exposure
to each other (Eller et al. 2011).

In the next section we provide a theoretical framework for how and why
grassroots interventions, especially those based on intergroup contact,
can reduce intergroup violence. We then discuss Nigeria's
farmer-pastoralist conflict, our experimental intervention, and two
designs to evaluate the effect of the intervention. Last we present the
results of the study and conclude by connecting these findings to
theories of group conflict and prejudice.

\section{References}\label{references}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\hypertarget{ref-autesserre2017international}{}
Autesserre, Severine. 2017. ``International Peacebuilding and Local
Success: Assumptions and Effectiveness.'' \emph{International Studies
Review} 19(1): 114--32.

\hypertarget{ref-autesserre2019crisis}{}
---------. January/February 2019. ``The Crisis of Peacekeeping: Why the
Un Can't End Wars.'' \emph{Foreign Affairs}.
\url{https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/2018-12-11/crisis-peacekeeping}.

\hypertarget{ref-autesserre2010trouble}{}
Autesserre, Séverine, and Séverine Autesserre. 2010. 115 \emph{The
Trouble with the Congo: Local Violence and the Failure of International
Peacebuilding}. Cambridge University Press.

\hypertarget{ref-barnhardt2009near}{}
Barnhardt, Sharon. 2009. ``Near and Dear? Evaluating the Impact of
Neighbor Diversity on Inter-Religious Attitudes.'' \emph{Unpublished
working paper}.

\hypertarget{ref-burns2015interaction}{}
Burns, Justine, Lucia Corno, and Eliana La Ferrara. 2015.
\emph{Interaction, Prejudice and Performance. Evidence from South
Africa}. Working paper.

\hypertarget{ref-dallaire2009shake}{}
Dallaire, Romeo. 2009. \emph{Shake Hands with the Devil: The Failure of
Humanity in Rwanda}. Vintage Canada.

\hypertarget{ref-daniel2018anti}{}
Daniel, Soni. 2018. ``Anti-Open Grazing Law: Nass, Benue, Kwara, Taraba
Tackle Defence Minister.'' \emph{Vanguard}.
\url{https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/06/anti-open-grazing-law-nass-benue-kwara-taraba-tackle-defence-minister/}.

\hypertarget{ref-ditlmann2016can}{}
Ditlmann, Ruth K, and Cyrus Samii. 2016. ``Can Intergroup Contact Affect
Ingroup Dynamics? Insights from a Field Study with Jewish and
Arab-Palestinian Youth in Israel.'' \emph{Peace and Conflict: Journal of
Peace Psychology} 22(4): 380.

\hypertarget{ref-ditlmann2017addressing}{}
Ditlmann, Ruth K, Cyrus Samii, and Thomas Zeitzoff. 2017. ``Addressing
Violent Intergroup Conflict from the Bottom up?'' \emph{Social Issues
and Policy Review} 11(1): 38--77.

\hypertarget{ref-doyle2000international}{}
Doyle, Michael W, and Nicholas Sambanis. 2000. ``International
Peacebuilding: A Theoretical and Quantitative Analysis.'' \emph{American
political science review} 94(4): 779--801.

\hypertarget{ref-duru2018court}{}
Duru, Peter. 2018. ``Court Stops Inspector General from Proscribing
Benue Livestock Guard.'' \emph{Vanguard}.
\url{https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/11/court-stops-ig-from-proscribing-benue-livestock-guards/}.

\hypertarget{ref-mazziotta2011vicarious}{}
Eller, Anja et al. 2011. ``Vicarious Intergroup Contact Effects:
Applying Social-Cognitive Theory to Intergroup Contact Research.''
\emph{Group Processes \& Intergroup Relations} 14(2): 255--74.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon1994ethnic}{}
Fearon, James D. 1994. ``Ethnic War as a Commitment Problem.'' In
\emph{Annual Meetings of the American Political Science Association},
2--5.

\hypertarget{ref-fearon1995rationalist}{}
---------. 1995. ``Rationalist Explanations for War.''
\emph{International organization} 49(3): 379--414.

\hypertarget{ref-gubler2013humanizing}{}
Gubler, Joshua R. 2013. ``When Humanizing the Enemy Fails: The Role of
Dissonance and Justification in Intergroup Conflict.'' In \emph{Annual
Meeting of the American Political Science Association},

\hypertarget{ref-marmaros2006friendships}{}
Marmaros, David, and Bruce Sacerdote. 2006. ``How Do Friendships Form?''
\emph{The Quarterly Journal of Economics} 121(1): 79--119.

\hypertarget{ref-mcdonnel2017graze}{}
McDonnel, Tim. 2017. ``Why It's Now a Crime to Let Cattle Graze Freely
in 2 Nigerian States.'' \emph{National Public Radio (NPR)}.
\url{https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2017/12/12/569913821/why-its-now-a-crime-to-let-cattle-graze-freely-in-2-nigerian-states}.

\hypertarget{ref-mcdougal2015effect}{}
McDougal, Topher L et al. 2015. ``The Effect of Farmer-Pastoralist
Violence on Income: New Survey Evidence from Nigeria's Middle Belt
States.'' \emph{Economics of Peace and Security Journal} 10(1): 54--65.

\hypertarget{ref-paluck2017contact}{}
Paluck, Elizabeth Levy, Seth Green, and Donald P Green. 2017. ``The
Contact Hypothesis Revisited.''

\hypertarget{ref-paolini2010negative}{}
Paolini, Stefania, Jake Harwood, and Mark Rubin. 2010. ``Negative
Intergroup Contact Makes Group Memberships Salient: Explaining Why
Intergroup Conflict Endures.'' \emph{Personality and Social Psychology
Bulletin} 36(12): 1723--38.

\hypertarget{ref-paris2003peacekeeping}{}
Paris, Roland. 2003. ``Peacekeeping and the Constraints of Global
Culture.'' \emph{European Journal of International Relations} 9(3):
441--73.

\hypertarget{ref-pettigrew2006meta}{}
Pettigrew, Thomas F, and Linda R Tropp. 2006. ``A Meta-Analytic Test of
Intergroup Contact Theory.'' \emph{Journal of personality and social
psychology} 90(5): 751.

\hypertarget{ref-pettigrew2008does}{}
---------. 2008. ``How Does Intergroup Contact Reduce Prejudice?
Meta-Analytic Tests of Three Mediators.'' \emph{European Journal of
Social Psychology} 38(6): 922--34.

\hypertarget{ref-powell2006war}{}
Powell, Robert. 2006. ``War as a Commitment Problem.''
\emph{International organization} 60(1): 169--203.

\hypertarget{ref-safunu2012grassroots}{}
Safunu, Banchani John-Paul. 2012. ``Do Grassroots Approaches and
Mobilization for Development Contribute to Post-Conflict Peacebuilding?
The Experience of Northern Ghana.'' \emph{Nairobi: Africa Leadership
Center}.

\hypertarget{ref-Scacco2016}{}
Scacco, Alexandra, and Shana S Warren. 2016. ``Youth Vocational Training
and Conflict Mitigation: An Experimental Test of Social Contact Theory
in Nigeria.''

\hypertarget{ref-smith2003mediation}{}
Smith, Alastair, and Allan Stam. 2003. ``Mediation and Peacekeeping in a
Random Walk Model of Civil and Interstate War.'' \emph{International
Studies Review} 5(4): 115--35.

\hypertarget{ref-vezzali2014indirect}{}
Vezzali, Loris et al. 2014. ``Improving Intergroup Relations with
Extended and Vicarious Forms of Indirect Contact.'' \emph{European
Review of Social Psychology} 25(1): 314--89.

\hypertarget{ref-weinstein2005autonomous}{}
Weinstein, Jeremy M. 2005. ``Autonomous Recovery and International
Intervention in Comparative Perspective.'' \emph{Available at SSRN
1114117}.

\hypertarget{ref-yablon2012we}{}
Yablon, Yaacov B. 2012. ``Are We Preaching to the Converted? The Role of
Motivation in Understanding the Contribution of Intergroup Encounters.''
\emph{Journal of Peace Education} 9(3): 249--63.

\end{document}
