%\documentclass[]{article}
\documentclass[11pt]{article}
\usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames]{xcolor}

\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
%\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{tgtermes}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
%\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage[letterpaper,bottom=1in,top=1in,right=1.25in,left=1.25in,includemp=FALSE]{geometry}
\usepackage{pdfpages}
\usepackage[small]{caption}

\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{\usepackage{microtype}}{}
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
\usepackage{fontspec}
\ifxetex
\usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
\fi
\defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
\newcommand{\euro}{€}
\fi
%

\usepackage{fancyvrb}

\usepackage{ctable,longtable}

\usepackage[section]{placeins}
\usepackage{float} % provides the H option for float placement
\restylefloat{figure}
\usepackage{dcolumn} % allows for different column alignments
\newcolumntype{.}{D{.}{.}{1.2}}

\usepackage{booktabs} % nicer horizontal rules in tables

%Assume we want graphics always
\usepackage{graphicx}
% We will generate all images so they have a width \maxwidth. This means
% that they will get their normal width if they fit onto the page, but
% are scaled down if they would overflow the margins.
%% \makeatletter
%% \def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth
%%   \else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
%% \makeatother
%% \let\Oldincludegraphics\includegraphics
%% \renewcommand{\includegraphics}[1]{\Oldincludegraphics[width=\maxwidth]{#1}}
\graphicspath{{.}{../Soccom_Code/socom_2013/}}


%% \ifxetex
%% \usepackage[pagebackref=true, setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
%% unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
%% xetex]{hyperref}
%% \else
\usepackage[pagebackref=true, unicode=true, bookmarks=true, pdftex]{hyperref}
% \fi


\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
  bookmarks=true,
  pdfauthor={Christopher Grady, Rebecca Wolfe, Danjuma Dawop, and Lisa Inks},
  pdftitle={Promoting Peace Amidst Group Conflict: An Intergroup Contact Field Experiment in Nigeria - Introduction},
  colorlinks=true,
  linkcolor=BrickRed,
  citecolor=blue, %MidnightBlue,
  urlcolor=BrickRed,
  % urlcolor=blue,
  % linkcolor=magenta,
  pdfborder={0 0 0}}

%\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
%\setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
\usepackage{parskip}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}

%% Insist on this.
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{2}

\VerbatimFootnotes % allows verbatim text in footnotes

\title{Promoting Peace Amidst Group Conflict: An Intergroup Contact Field
Experiment in Nigeria - Introduction}

\author{
Christopher Grady, Rebecca Wolfe, Danjuma Dawop, and Lisa Inks
}


\date{August 09, 2019}


\usepackage{versions}
\makeatletter
\renewcommand*\versionmessage[2]{\typeout{*** `#1' #2. ***}}
\renewcommand*\beginmarkversion{\sffamily}
  \renewcommand*\endmarkversion{}
\makeatother

\excludeversion{comment}

%\usepackage[margins=1in]{geometry}

\usepackage[compact,bottomtitles]{titlesec}
%\titleformat{ ⟨command⟩}[⟨shape⟩]{⟨format⟩}{⟨label⟩}{⟨sep⟩}{⟨before⟩}[⟨after⟩]
\titleformat{\section}[hang]{\Large\bfseries}{\thesection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\subsection}[hang]{\large\bfseries}{\thesubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{1ex}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\bfseries\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}}
%\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}}

%%\titleformat{\subsection}[hang]{\bfseries}{\thesubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%%%\titleformat*{\subsection}{\bfseries\scshape}
%%%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[leftmargin]{\footnotesize\filleft}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{}{}
%%\titleformat{\subsubsection}[hang]{\small\bfseries}{\thesubsubsection}{.5em}{\hspace{0in}}[\vspace{-.2\baselineskip}]
%%\titleformat{\paragraph}[runin]{\itshape}{\theparagraph}{1ex}{}{\vspace{-.5\baselineskip}}

%\titlespacing*{ ⟨command⟩}{⟨left⟩}{⟨beforesep⟩}{⟨aftersep⟩}[⟨right⟩]
\titlespacing{\section}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}
\titlespacing{\subsection}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}
\titlespacing{\subsubsection}{0pc}{1.5ex plus .1ex minus .2ex}{.5ex plus .1ex minus .1ex}



%% These next lines tell latex that it is ok to have a single graphic
%% taking up most of a page, and they also decrease the space around
%% figures and tables.
\renewcommand\floatpagefraction{.9}
\renewcommand\topfraction{.9}
\renewcommand\bottomfraction{.9}
\renewcommand\textfraction{.1}
\setcounter{totalnumber}{50}
\setcounter{topnumber}{50}
\setcounter{bottomnumber}{50}
\setlength{\intextsep}{2ex}
\setlength{\floatsep}{2ex}
\setlength{\textfloatsep}{2ex}



\begin{document}
\VerbatimFootnotes

%\begin{titlepage}
%  \maketitle
%\vspace{2in}
%
%\begin{center}
%  \begin{large}
%    PROPOSAL WHITE PAPER
%
%BAA 14-013
%
%Can a Hausa Language Television Station Change Norms about Violence in Northern Nigeria? A Randomized Study of Media Effects on Violent Extremism
%
%Jake Bowers
%
%University of Illinois @ Urbana-Champaign (jwbowers@illinois.edu)
%
%\url{http://jakebowers.org}
%
%Phone: +12179792179
%
%Topic Number: 1
%
%Topic Title: Identity, Influence and Mobilization
%
%\end{large}
%\end{center}
%\end{titlepage}

\maketitle

\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\subsection{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

Across Nigeria, villages lay charred and abandoned as a result of
conflict between sedentary farmers and semi-nomadic pastoralists. More
than an occupational difference, groups who cultivate crops and groups
who graze cattle define a major cleavage in many parts of the world.
They conflict over land rights, which define both of their livelihoods.
Farmer-pastoralist conflict has escalated througout the Sahel in recent
years, and nowhere more than in Nigeria, where groups of
anti-pastoralist vigilantes, dubbed the ``livestock guard'', have
mobilized to prevent pastoralists from encroaching on land claimed by
farmers (Duru 2018; McDonnel 2017). The livestock guard ransack
pastoralist settlements and force pastoralists from their homes, often
with the assistance of the local farming community. Likewise,
pastoralist groups enact vigilante justice, raiding and burning to the
ground farming villages seen to encroach on ancestral grazing routes.
The most recent conflict escalation is causing dire consequences: 7,000
deaths in the past five years, 300,000 internally displaces peoples from
their homes in 2018, and \$13 billion of lost economic productivity
annually (Akinwotu 2018; Daniel 2018; Harwood 2019; McDougal et al.
2015).

Though farmer-pastoralist conflict is widespread throughout Nigeria,
some farmer and pastoralist groups maintained good relations even as
circumstances push them towards conflict. When the livestock guard came
to ransack one pastoralist settlement, the neighboring farming village
arrested them to protect their pastoralist friends. After the arrest,
farmers and pastoralists convened to decide what should be done with the
prisoners. They agreed that the group of livestock guard should not be
punished, but should be disarmed and released home -- a proposition
proposed by the pastoralists. These farmers and pastoralists, despite
their disagreements over land rights, had established relationships that
allowed them to settle disagreements. Those same relationships motivated
the farmers to intervene on behalf of the pastoralists and allowed a
peaceful resolution to what might have otherwise been a violent
incident.

Why were some farmer and pastoralist groups able to keep peace whereas
others were consumed by the escalating conflict? Why were some groups
able to overcome their land disputes whereas others were destroyed by
them? To understand why disagreements between groups devolve into
violent conflict, we use the framework of intergroup conflict as a
bargaining failure, which highlights trust problems as the primary
obstacle to peace between groups. Groups in conflict have few
opportunities to build trust and many to degrade it. We argue that
providing opportunities for trust-building through cooperative
intergroup contact improves the prospects for peace. Intergroup trust
ameliorates bargaining problems and increases the likelihood of the
groups resolving disputes through bargaining instead of violence.

Treating intergroup conflict as a bargaining failure is common in
conflict studies (Fearon 1994; Powell 2006). Both groups want some
resource -- land, power, etc -- and must decide how to distribute that
resource. Groups can either bargain and split the resource, or groups
can fight to claim all of the resource or to increase their later
bargaining position. Fighting is costly, so both groups are better off
finding a bargained solution than fighting. However, bargaining fails if
neither group trusts the other side to be truthful or to honor bargained
agreements (Kydd 2000; Rohner, Thoenig, and Zilibotti 2013, 2013).
Without a reason to trust each other, groups are likely to fight despite
the costs to both sides.

A number of psychological mechanisms complicate bargaining amidst
conflict. First, conflicting groups hold biased perceptions of their own
behavior and the behavior of the other side (Duncan 1976; Vallone, Ross,
and Lepper 1985; Ward et al. 1997). Groups perceive their own
belligerent actions as defensive and justified, and perceive the
defensive actions of the other side as belligerent and gratuitous. These
perceptual biases create and reinforce negative outgroup stereotypes
(Hewstone 1990). Second, groups in conflict derive psychological
benefits from feelings of moral superiority over the outgroup (Fein and
Spencer 1997; Tajfel and Turner 1979). These feelings of moral
superiority add costs to improving attitudes about the outgroup and to
cooperating with the outgroup. Together these two psychological
mechanisms sabotage intergroup bargaining by causing the groups to have
inaccurate beliefs about each other and by limiting peace agreements
acceptable to both sides.

Many peacebuilding organizations utilize peacebuilding approaches
focused on improving intergroup attitudes. One such approach, intergroup
contact theory, hypothesizes that interactions in which group members
cooperate to achieve shared goals will improve intergroup attitudes.
Cooperative contact provides positive personal experience with the
outgroup, and those experiences reshape outgroup attitudes (Allport
1954; Pettigrew and Tropp 2008). This type of structured face-to-face
contact also provides groups the opportunity to send costly signals
about their trustworthiness and preference for peace (Kydd 2000; Lupia,
McCubbins, and Arthur 1998; Rohner, Thoenig, and Zilibotti 2013).
Intergroup contact is especially good at reducing intergroup conflict
when groups cooperate to achieve superordinate goals -- goals that
require the cooperation of both groups and benefit both groups --
because groups experience the material benefits of cooperation (Gaertner
et al. 2000; Sherif 1958).

Although research shows support for intergroup contact theory generally
(Pettigrew and Tropp 2006), its efficacy to improve intergroup attitudes
amid real-world conflict is an open question (Ditlmann, Samii, and
Zeitzoff 2017). Negative experiences with outgroups worsen intergroup
relations, and individuals with the most negative attitudes are most
likely to interpret intergroup contact negatively (Gubler 2013; Paolini,
Harwood, and Rubin 2010). Its impact on interracial and interethnic
attitudes has also been challenged by recent reviews (Paluck, Green, and
Green 2017). Despite a lack of evidence about the effects of
contact-based peacebuilding programs in violent contexts, and the risks
of programs going badly, peacebuilding organizations implement numerous
contact-based interventions in violent contexts each year (Ditlmann,
Samii, and Zeitzoff 2017). These peacebuilding programs may or may not
defuse intergroup conflict.

To determine if a contact-based peacebuilding intervention improved
intergroup attitudes, we conducted a field experiment with conflicting
farmer and pastoralist communities in Nigeria. We randomly assigned
communities with ongoing farmer-pastoralist violence to receive the
peacebuilding intervention or serve as a control group. The intervention
formed mixed-group committees and provided them with funds to build
infrastructure that would benefit both communities; committees then
collaboratively chose and constructed infrastructure projects.\footnote{The
  communities built boreholes, market stalls, primary health care
  facilities, etc.} The program also provided mediation training to each
community's leaders and held forums where the groups discussed the
underlying drivers of conflict. To measure the effects of the
intervention, we conducted pre- and post-intervention surveys, a
post-intervention natural public goods behavioral game,\footnote{In a
  public goods game (PGG), research subjects are given money and told
  they can keep the money or donate it to a public fund. Money donated
  to the public fund is multiplied by some amount and then shared with
  all subjects. Our PGG is \emph{natural} because it was conducted in a
  natural setting, rather than a lab. The funding for the PGG came from
  the National Science Foundation under Grant No.~1656871.} and twelve
months of systematic observations in markets and social events during
the intervention.

We find that the program increased intergroup trust, intergroup contact,
and perceptions of physical security. We see signs of the positive
effects in fieldwork as well as in data -- the opening story in which
farmers defended pastoralists from the livestock guard occurred in a
treatment site. The results also show that the intervention affected
communities as a whole, not just community members directly involved in
the intergroup contact. Individuals who directly engaged in intergroup
contact changed the most positively from baseline to endline, but we
also observe positive spillovers of trust to group members for whom we
did not exogenously increase intergroup contact.

This study expands our knowledge about intergroup conflict in several
ways. First, this study teaches us about the capacity of contact-based
peacebuilding programs to improve intergroup relations. To our knowledge
this is the first field experimental test of a contact-based
peacebuilding program implemented during an active conflict. Each of the
groups in our study were part of an active and escalating conflict, with
members of each side being killed within one year of the intervention's
onset. We evaluated the program's effects on both attitudinal and
behavioral outcomes. The results suggest that contact-based
peacebuilding programs can effectively improve relationships between
conflicting groups and is especially relevant to conflict resolution in
the cases of intergroup and intercommunal conflicts.

Second, we contribute to the literature about informal structures, such
as social norms, in solving collective action problems. In some
contexts, formal institutions ensure collective action by punishing
groups and individuals who ``defect'' on agreements. In many contexts,
such as rural Nigeria, no formal institutions exist to encourage such
behavior and so groups in those contexts develop informal structures to
achieve collective action (Ostrom 2000). This peacebuilding intervention
showed how those informal structures can develop through repeated
intergroup interaction. Creating informal structures that diffuse the
effects of contact are a way of scaling up peacebuilding interventions.

Third, this paper teaches us about settling disputes between sedentary
peoples and nomadic peoples. Violent conflict between settled peoples
and nomadic peoples is on the rise throughout Africa (Kuusaana and
Bukari 2015; Mwamfupe 2015; Nnoko-Mewanu 2018). This study focuses on
the Fulani, the largest semi-nomadic people on Earth (Encyclopedia
2017). Their way of life makes them targets for violence throughout
Africa. Along with this conflict in Nigeria, Fulani in Mali have been
the targets of violence so severe that researchers at Armed Conflict
Location \& Event Data Project called it ``ethnic cleansing'' (Economist
2019). Understanding how to prevent violent conflict between Fulani and
settled peoples can help prevent violence that targets other nomadic and
semi-nomadic peoples, such as the Tuaregs in West Africa, Uyghurs in
Central Asia, Kochi in Afghanistan, and Khoisan of Southern Africa.
Preventing such violence could help preserve a dying way of life.

In the next section we provide a theoretical framework for how and why
opposing groups struggle to solve their disagreements through bargaining
and negotiation, and elucidate how contact-based peacebuilding
interventions help these groups resolve disagreements by improving
intergroup trust. We then discuss Nigeria's farmer-pastoralist conflict,
our experimental intervention, and two designs to evaluate the effect of
the intervention. Last we present the results of the study and conclude
by connecting these findings to psychological and economic theories of
group conflict.

\hypertarget{references}{%
\section*{References}\label{references}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{References}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-nyt2018nigeria}{}%
Akinwotu, Emmanuel. 2018. ``Nigeria's Farmers and Herders Fight a Deadly
Battle for Scarce Resources.'' \emph{New York Times}.
\url{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/25/world/africa/nigeria-herders-farmers.html}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-allport1954prejudice}{}%
Allport, Gordon. 1954. ``The Nature of Prejudice.'' \emph{Garden City,
NJ Anchor}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-daniel2018anti}{}%
Daniel, Soni. 2018. ``Anti-Open Grazing Law: Nass, Benue, Kwara, Taraba
Tackle Defence Minister.'' \emph{Vanguard}.
\url{https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/06/anti-open-grazing-law-nass-benue-kwara-taraba-tackle-defence-minister/}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-ditlmann2017addressing}{}%
Ditlmann, Ruth K, Cyrus Samii, and Thomas Zeitzoff. 2017. ``Addressing
Violent Intergroup Conflict from the Bottom up?'' \emph{Social Issues
and Policy Review} 11(1): 38--77.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-duncan1976differential}{}%
Duncan, Birt L. 1976. ``Differential Social Perception and Attribution
of Intergroup Violence: Testing the Lower Limits of Stereotyping of
Blacks.'' \emph{Journal of personality and social psychology} 34(4):
590.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-duru2018court}{}%
Duru, Peter. 2018. ``Court Stops Inspector General from Proscribing
Benue Livestock Guard.'' \emph{Vanguard}.
\url{https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/11/court-stops-ig-from-proscribing-benue-livestock-guards/}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-economist2019militias}{}%
Economist, The. 2019. ``Malicious Malitias: States in the Sahel Have
Unleashed Ethnic Gangs with Guns.'' \emph{The Economist}.
\url{https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2019/05/04/states-in-the-sahel-have-unleashed-ethnic-gangs-with-guns}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-fulanisize2017}{}%
Encyclopedia, New World. 2017. ``Fulani --- New World Encyclopedia,''
\url{//www.newworldencyclopedia.org/p/index.php?title=Fulani\&oldid=1004777}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-fearon1994ethnic}{}%
Fearon, James D. 1994. ``Ethnic War as a Commitment Problem.'' In
\emph{Annual Meetings of the American Political Science Association},
2--5.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-fein1997prejudice}{}%
Fein, Steven, and Steven J Spencer. 1997. ``Prejudice as Self-Image
Maintenance: Affirming the Self Through Derogating Others.''
\emph{Journal of personality and Social Psychology} 73(1): 31.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-gaertner2000reducing}{}%
Gaertner, Samuel L et al. 2000. ``Reducing Intergroup Conflict: From
Superordinate Goals to Decategorization, Recategorization, and Mutual
Differentiation.'' \emph{Group Dynamics: Theory, Research, and Practice}
4(1): 98.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-gubler2013humanizing}{}%
Gubler, Joshua R. 2013. ``When Humanizing the Enemy Fails: The Role of
Dissonance and Justification in Intergroup Conflict.'' In \emph{Annual
Meeting of the American Political Science Association},

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-council2019nigeria}{}%
Harwood, Asch. 2019. ``Update: The Numbers Behind Sectarian Violence in
Nigeria.'' \emph{Council on Foreign Relations}.
\url{https://www.cfr.org/blog/update-numbers-behind-sectarian-violence-nigeria}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-hewstone1990ultimate}{}%
Hewstone, Miles. 1990. ``The `Ultimate Attribution Error'? A Review of
the Literature on Intergroup Causal Attribution.'' \emph{European
Journal of Social Psychology} 20(4): 311--35.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-kuusaana2015land}{}%
Kuusaana, Elias Danyi, and Kaderi Noagah Bukari. 2015. ``Land Conflicts
Between Smallholders and Fulani Pastoralists in Ghana: Evidence from the
Asante Akim North District (Aand).'' \emph{Journal of rural studies} 42:
52--62.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-kydd2000trust}{}%
Kydd, Andrew. 2000. ``Trust, Reassurance, and Cooperation.''
\emph{International Organization} 54(2): 325--57.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-lupia1998democratic}{}%
Lupia, Arthur, Mathew D McCubbins, and Lupia Arthur. 1998. \emph{The
Democratic Dilemma: Can Citizens Learn What They Need to Know?}
Cambridge University Press.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-mcdonnel2017graze}{}%
McDonnel, Tim. 2017. ``Why It's Now a Crime to Let Cattle Graze Freely
in 2 Nigerian States.'' \emph{National Public Radio (NPR)}.
\url{https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2017/12/12/569913821/why-its-now-a-crime-to-let-cattle-graze-freely-in-2-nigerian-states}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-mcdougal2015effect}{}%
McDougal, Topher L et al. 2015. ``The Effect of Farmer-Pastoralist
Violence on Income: New Survey Evidence from Nigeria's Middle Belt
States.'' \emph{Economics of Peace and Security Journal} 10(1): 54--65.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-mwamfupe2015persistence}{}%
Mwamfupe, Davis. 2015. ``Persistence of Farmer-Herder Conflicts in
Tanzania.'' \emph{International Journal of Scientific and Research
Publications} 5(2): 1--8.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-hrc2018farmer}{}%
Nnoko-Mewanu, Juliana. 2018. ``Farmer-Herder Conflicts on the Rise in
Africa.'' \emph{Human Rights Watch}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-ostrom2000collective}{}%
Ostrom, Elinor. 2000. ``Collective Action and the Evolution of Social
Norms.'' \emph{Journal of economic perspectives} 14(3): 137--58.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-paluck2017contact}{}%
Paluck, Elizabeth Levy, Seth Green, and Donald P Green. 2017. ``The
Contact Hypothesis Revisited.''

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-paolini2010negative}{}%
Paolini, Stefania, Jake Harwood, and Mark Rubin. 2010. ``Negative
Intergroup Contact Makes Group Memberships Salient: Explaining Why
Intergroup Conflict Endures.'' \emph{Personality and Social Psychology
Bulletin} 36(12): 1723--38.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-pettigrew2006meta}{}%
Pettigrew, Thomas F, and Linda R Tropp. 2006. ``A Meta-Analytic Test of
Intergroup Contact Theory.'' \emph{Journal of personality and social
psychology} 90(5): 751.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-pettigrew2008does}{}%
---------. 2008. ``How Does Intergroup Contact Reduce Prejudice?
Meta-Analytic Tests of Three Mediators.'' \emph{European Journal of
Social Psychology} 38(6): 922--34.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-powell2006war}{}%
Powell, Robert. 2006. ``War as a Commitment Problem.''
\emph{International organization} 60(1): 169--203.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-rohner2013war}{}%
Rohner, Dominic, Mathias Thoenig, and Fabrizio Zilibotti. 2013. ``War
Signals: A Theory of Trade, Trust, and Conflict.'' \emph{Review of
Economic Studies} 80(3): 1114--47.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-sherif1958superordinate}{}%
Sherif, Muzafer. 1958. ``Superordinate Goals in the Reduction of
Intergroup Conflict.'' \emph{American journal of Sociology} 63(4):
349--56.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-tajfel1979integrative}{}%
Tajfel, Henri, and John C Turner. 1979. ``An Integrative Theory of
Intergroup Conflict.'' \emph{The social psychology of intergroup
relations} 33(47): 74.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-vallone1985hostileMedia}{}%
Vallone, Robert P, Lee Ross, and Mark R Lepper. 1985. ``The Hostile
Media Phenomenon: Biased Perception and Perceptions of Media Bias in
Coverage of the Beirut Massacre.'' \emph{Journal of personality and
social psychology} 49(3): 577.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-ward1997naive}{}%
Ward, Andrew et al. 1997. ``Naive Realism in Everyday Life: Implications
for Social Conflict and Misunderstanding.'' \emph{Values and knowledge}:
103--35.

\end{document}
